Los Angeles (NWI) - The No. 1 text analysis company Text
Analysis International Inc. (TAI) has bought American
Medical Records Processing (AMRP) for more than $130
million dollars. Avi Meyers, CEO and president of TAI,
said on Friday that they bought the Los Angeles-based AMRP
for $120 million in cash and $14.3 million in assumed debt.

Founded in 1972, AMRP is the largest text processing firm
in the country for medical records and journals and has
been using TAI's VisualText technology almost exclusively
for 3 years.

The sale of the medical records processing company for more
than $134.3 million is above analysts' predictions but is
not surprising given TAI's strong position in the market
place.

In 2006 alone, TAI has acquired MD Files, New Hampshire
Medical Inc., and Carezani Med Company of Maryland for a
total of 160 million dollars.

With this last purchase, TAI has substantially strengthened
its hold on the medical text processing field and hopes to
centralize the processing of medical records nationally.

With its latest purchase of the medical records processing
company, TAI's stock is up 4% from $58.33 a share to
$60.66.

TAI's stock has recently remained steady due to its lawsuit
with MiasmaCraft whose text processing IDE Miasma-Text bears
a striking resemblance to TAI's VisualText.

TAI is vigorously defending its patent on VisualText,
NLP++, and the Conceptual Grammar.